= HashFactory

== The simplest Rails test factory ever.

== Install

      gem install hash_factory

Add this line to the top of test/test_helper.rb

      require 'test_help' # this should already be here
      HashFactory.setup


== Lets start with the calling code

I like to setup my test data in the test.

* Along the lines of

      test "A User with a blank last name should be invalid" do
        @user = create_user :last_name => ''
        assert @user.invalid?
      end

== A few things to notice:

No Factory calls, these methods are global to the test,
do I really need the namespace, will I ever need a SomethingElse.create_user

I define the arguments relevant to the test explicitly.
I dont need to look at the implementation to see if the user has a last_name.

I assume the factory handles the rest and passes me a 'VALID' instance.

== Test things in isolation
A factory that returns an invalid instance will eventually cause a failure that ripples
through your test code.


== How to use it

* create a factories directory:
      
      mkdir test/factories

Add a module to this folder and the methods
automatically become available in your tests.

* Mine tend to look like this:
      
      module UserFactory
        
        def create_user(options={})
          build :user, user_options(options)
        end
        
        def user_options(options={})
          {
            :first_name => 'Jim',
            :last_name => 'Bean',
            :email => "jim@example.com",
            :account => options[:account] || create_account
          }.merge(options)
        end
      end


Add as many or as few files as you like.

The advantage of using this plugin is you can build your objects any way you like.

Don't worry about protected attributes
the 'build' method handles it for you.

=== Pluralization Issues

Be sure to update your 'initializers/inflections.rb'
If you get an Constant missing error when loading a factory.


=== Factory love in the console.

Call

      require 'hash_factory'
      HashFactory.load_in(self)

Or event better

copy the file:

      config/initializers/factory_in_console.rb

and it's always there waiting for you.


Copyright (c) 2009 [Brent Greeff], released under the MIT license
